small vegan cafe and lisi which is in
Georgia former Soviet Union was attacked
by a group of fascist sympathizers who
are wearing necklaces made of meat and
throwing and throwing pieces of meat at
the patrons of this vegan cafe no me
laddies mom [ __ ] retro black [ __ ] on
train no many transitions they started
making threats of physical violence and
when they went outside when these people
like pulled them into the street they
wanted to start a street fight they had
neighbors holding knives saying that
they wanted to participate their
neighbors were actually saying yes we're
going to join in with you fascist
neo-nazis and beat up these cafe owners
which is disturbing and i think the
entire incident and the seriousness of
the incident really underlines the fact
that veganism is not the same everywhere
when you are on YouTube and especially
when you come from a country like Canada
where I am or the United States you
forget that in a lot of places being
vegan is not acceptable Georgia is not
just a country that seems to be rather
unfriendly towards vegans and
vegetarians they also have a long
history of being homophobic and in 2012
the people of Tbilisi organized their
first-ever march against homophobia and
transphobia and they held this one in
2012 faced a lot of difficulties in 2013
unfortunately a counter protesters were
ready for them beat up some pho that the
members very badly and the police really
did nothing to help them in the last few
years there haven't been any major
expressions of support for the LGBT
community in Georgia and instead the
Orthodox Church there has used the
parade against homophobia and
transphobia as the day to celebrate
Family Day and traditional values and
basically it's a giant march against gay
rights and it's just it's disturbing
that that's still going on in this day
an age it's sad to see a country become
I think even more closed off to gay
rights than it already is and I think
that this incidents at the vegan cafe
and one of the things that the neighbors
were saying is that people there were a
little weird they listen to different
music they didn't eat meat and criticize
them for having Western ideals which I
thought was a bit strange but the idea
is gay rights and things like that are
in the former Soviet Union they're seen
as Western ideals and so they're very
much against this and a lot of the
neighbors and everything around this
cafe simply allowed these people to be
attacked so yo shout out to mod vegan
obviously I've got a link below this
video obviously one reason for my making
this video now is to support her direct
more viewers towards her channel I
always like to shout out other vegans
who are keeping it real who are talking
about political issues than veganism
vegans who are not trying to sell you a
diet book not trying to sell you a
cookbook not trying to sell you a dream
mod vegan is one of the good ones I hope
she continues to ask difficult questions
to ask meaningful questions about
politics and veganism 21st century I'm
going to start off this comment with
what seems like a non sequitur but
you'll see how it relates to this in
just a minute in both Cambodia and
France two very different cultures two
very different context very different
settings I encountered people who simply
could not admit that vegans exist were
they were in denial about the idea that
it was possible to go for even one meal
without eating meat I know that sounds
absurd but I actually met and saw people
with that attitude in both France and
Cambodia now I mean the most extreme
example I can think of that you know
there was an ex vegan called Li air
Keith who published a book and it's of
interviews and made a brief media
sensation of herself and she claimed
that likewise she claimed that there are
no vegans the people who say they're
vegan actually our secret leading meat
and this sort of thing uh now as bizarre
as it seems alongside the numerous other
forms of active and hateful homophobia
of anti-gay
rhetoric anti-gay attitudes there are
also people who really don't believe
that homosexuals exist may sound absurd
but as life goes on you will meet those
people now whether that's because they
think that gays are merely bisexuals
like that there are people who choose to
do this and then it's not an inherent
part of their character our identity or
what have you or I mean I remember there
was a stand-up comedian in Canada who
talked a lot she was uh she was a
lesbian and she talked a lot about her
sexual identity and sexual politics and
when she was a child her parents did not
believe homosexuals existed she thought
this they'll you know her parents just
thought this was non said this was
something the media was you know picking
up out of thin air and then as she got
older and she had to articulate to her
parents know they exist we exist you
know she had to come out of the closet
and explain her situation life thrown
parents then her parents switched to
believing that this was something that
only existed in decadent Western
countries and that didn't exist in
Hungary they were there were hungarian
immigrants from hungary to canada that
you know didn't exist in the old country
and didn't exist in other places and
then that also for the daughter was a
process of trying to drag her parents
through recognizing the reality the
world we live in um you know the the
change that happened in Western society
apart from gay rights existing on paper
as legislation was a change in in gays
as individuals going from being in the
closet to being public and vocal and
identified as such and in many cities
around the world gays having a permanent
presence in a neighborhood of some kind
in a district you know it could just be
a couple of nightclubs or a couple of
restaurants in some cases it's really a
big neighborhood of a town and the
implicit message of all that is that
gays exist um may sound ridiculous but
it's not that really is a struggle unto
itself is for the gay community to be
able to say we're not going to disappear
we're not a fad we're not a mental
illness we're a part of the society
where a meaning
full and significant and substantive
part of the society even if we're not
your friends or neighbors even if you
don't know any of us you know we're here
we're not going to disappear and I mean
the struggles to do that I've also heard
about some struggles to try to have gay
neighborhoods and gay nightclubs and gay
gay establishments within Israel where
it's the religious conservatives within
Judaism that are fighting against that
in some of those some of those their
Eastern European also because there are
immigrants from these same parts of
Eastern Europe who happen to be Jewish
should go to Israel and then lead these
lead these campaigns against over
homosexuals now of course there are
limits to this comparison the problem
for veganism is not that we're in the
closet by and large you can you can meet
some vegans who are in the closet but in
two very different cultures in Cambodia
and in France I met and spoke with
people who really believe that vegans
did not exist that who really believed
that was impossible and I met people who
really thought it was impossible to go
for a single meal without eating me who
could not sit at a restaurant and either
themselves alone eat a single meal as a
vegetarian and i remember in france the
null were describing all the details but
i was at a vegan restaurant there was a
french man who went came into this vegan
restaurant with his with his family with
his wife and kids and he was openly
offended and horrified at the idea of
eating one meal with his family that
didn't include me and he was saying
openly cuz he was kind of giving an
explanation to the waiter before he
stormed out of the restaurant he said
yes he believed in eating a lot of fruit
and vegetables you know in addition to
meet but that it was totally
unacceptable them and totally
unthinkable to him that he would go for
a single meal without eating meat he
thought that was impossible he wasn't an
old man either me was whatever he was
probably probably younger than I am
whatever he was in his 30s so I know it
sounds absurd but part of the power of
having a restaurant of having a district
of having a visible permanent presence
in a city is just getting across we
exist were not a fad or a part of the
society we're not going to go
I say no gay rights is a struggle on
many different levels and many different
things gay rights is also course a
struggle against organized religion in
many ways you know there are many ways
in which these things are not directly
comparable but in that sense of having
that permanent presence and I got I got
a turnaround for you guys because I know
some of you oppose me you know my video
on community that's now been translated
into several languages it's going to be
translated into more it's going to be
uploaded in several more languages a lot
of you oppose my ID on this when you
talk about any of these big cities
dougald San Francisco you've got to also
ask why not why shouldn't San Francisco
have a gay district just why not you
know even if it doesn't interest you or
what have you I've just given all these
meaningful reasons for why it should but
you can also just ask why shouldn't it
why not why shouldn't San Francisco have
a vegan district why not I okay i don't
care if it's you know one corner of the
city utiful couple of we have one small
street just why not I've given the
positive arguments and I do think long
term culturally one aspect of the
struggle wearing is just to declare we
exist we're part of the society we want
a part of the future here um and you
know we can do it we should do it I do
think that owning and operating a
restaurant is itself a meaningful form
of activism can have a big impact you
have a big impact on other activists but
overcoming hatred and hostility towards
you is one thing establishing we exist
we are a community we're a significant
part of the society and even if you hate
us we're not going to disappear that is
another